Update Testing iOS documentation (#4327)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/testing-ios.md

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview
{:.no_toc}

CircleCI offers support for building, testing and deploying iOS projects in macOS virtual machines. Each image provided has a set of common tools installed, such as Ruby and OpenJDK, alongside a version of Xcode. For more information about supplied images, refer to the [software manifest](#supported-xcode-versions) for each Xcode image.

There is documentation for [an iOS example project]({{ site.baseurl}}/2.0/ios-tutorial/) and [getting started on MacOS]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/hello-world-macos/).

## Using the macOS Executor

Each `macos` job is run a fresh virtual machine, running a specified version macOS. We build a new image each time a new stable, or beta, version of Xcode is released by Apple and aim to get these deployed as soon as possible. Generally, the contents of a particular build image will remain unchanged, except in very exceptional circumstances we might be forced to re-build a container for a specific reason. Our goal is to keep your build environement stable, and to allow you to opt-in to newer containers by setting the `xcode` key in your `config.yml` file.

> Periodically, we will update the version of macOS the image includes to ensure the build environment is as update to date as possible. When a new major version of macOS is released, we will generally switch to this once the new major version of Xcode reaches the `xx.2` release to ensure the build environment is kept stable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Periodically, we will update the version of macOS each image includes to ensure the build environment is as up to date as possible. When a new major version of macOS is released, we will generally switch to this once the new major version of Xcode reaches the `xx.2` release to ensure the build environment is kept stable.
```

 `10.3.0` | Xcode 10.3 (Build 10G8)         | 10.14.4 | [Installed software](https://circle-macos-docs.s3.amazonaws.com/image-manifest/v1925/index.html)
 `10.2.1` | Xcode 10.2.1 (Build 10E1001)    | 10.14.4 | [Installed software](https://circle-macos-docs.s3.amazonaws.com/image-manifest/v1911/index.html)
 `10.1.0` | Xcode 10.1 (Build 10B61)        | 10.13.6 | [Installed software](https://circle-macos-docs.s3.amazonaws.com/image-manifest/v1901/index.html)
 `10.0.0` | Xcode 10.0 (Build 10A255)       | 10.13.6 | [Installed software](https://circle-macos-docs.s3.amazonaws.com/image-manifest/v1893/index.html)
 `9.4.1`  | Xcode 9.4.1 (Build 9F2000)      | 10.13.3 | [Installed software](https://circle-macos-docs.s3.amazonaws.com/image-manifest/v1881/index.html)
 `9.3.1`  | Xcode 9.3.1 (Build 9E501)       | 10.13.3 | [Installed software](https://circle-macos-docs.s3.amazonaws.com/image-manifest/v1875/index.html)
 `9.0.1`  | Xcode 9.0.1 (Build 9A1004)      | 10.12.6 | [Installed software](https://circle-macos-docs.s3.amazonaws.com/image-manifest/v1848/index.html)
{: class="table table-striped"}

## Getting Started

> Select a macOS project repository you would like to build on the Add Projects page of the CircleCI application. You will need to ensure you have a [plan that allows macOS builds](https://circleci.com/pricing/), or if your project is open source, you can [apply for a special plan](https://circleci.com/open-source/) with free monthly build credits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select a macOS project repository you would like to build from the **Add Projects** page of the CircleCI application. You will need to ensure you have a [plan that allows macOS builds](https://circleci.com/pricing/), or if your project is open source, you can [apply for a special plan](https://circleci.com/open-source/) with free monthly build credits.
```

We highly recommend using [Fastlane](https://fastlane.tools) to build and sign your apps in CircleCI. Fastlane requires minimal configuration in most cases and simplifies the build-test-deploy process.

### Setting Up Your Xcode Project

> After setting up the project on CircleCI, you will need to ensure that the scheme you intend to build with Fastlane is marked as "shared" in your Xcode project. In most new projects created by Xcode, the default scheme will already by marked as "shared". To verify this, or to share an existing scheme, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After setting up the project on CircleCI, you will need to ensure that the scheme you intend to build with Fastlane is marked as "shared" in your Xcode project. In most new projects created by Xcode, the default scheme will already be marked as "shared". To verify this, or to share an existing scheme, complete the following steps:
```

> 1. Choose Product -> Scheme -> Manage Schemes

Reviewer: Where do they do this?

Author: @rosieyohannan In Xcode, will clarify that

2. Select the "Shared" option for the scheme to share, and click Close
3. Ensure the `myproject.xcodeproj/xcshareddata/xcschemes` directory is checked into your Git repository and push the changes

Simple projects should run with minimal configuration. You can find an
example of a minimal config in the
[iOS Project Tutorial]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/ios-tutorial/).

## Using Fastlane

> [Fastlane](https://fastlane.tools/) is a set of tools for automating the build and deploy process of mobile apps. We encourage the use of Fastlane on CircleCI as it simplifies the setup and automation of the build, test and deploy process. Additionally, it also allows parity between local and CircleCI builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Fastlane](https://fastlane.tools/) is a set of tools for automating the build and deploy process of mobile apps. We encourage the use of Fastlane on CircleCI as it simplifies the setup and automation of the build, test and deploy process. Additionally, it allows parity between local and CircleCI builds.
```

```yaml
# ...
run:
  name: Set Ruby Version
  command:  echo "ruby-2.4" > ~/.ruby-version
```

Replace `2.4` with the version of Ruby required - you do not need to specify the full Ruby version, `2.4.9` for example, just the major version. This will ensure your config does not break when switching to newer images that might have slightly newer Ruby versions.

### Installing additional Ruby versions

To run a job with a version of Ruby that is not pre-installed, you must install the required version of Ruby. We use the [ruby-install](https://github.com/postmodern/ruby-install) tool to install the required version. After the install is complete, you can select it using the appropriate technique above.

### Using Custom Versions of CocoaPods and Other Ruby Gems
{:.no_toc}

To make sure the version of CocoaPods that you use locally is also used
in your CircleCI builds, we suggest creating a Gemfile in your iOS
project and adding the CocoaPods version to it:

```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'cocoapods', '= 1.3.0'
```

Then you can install these using bundler:

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: this needs to be surrounded with 
`{% raw %}`
 > ... code
`{% endraw %}`

because there are unescaped `{{` and `}}` in the code block (Jekyll is trying to evaluate it).

            - build-and-test
```

> The environment variable `FL_OUTPUT_DIR` is the artifact directory where FastLane logs, and signed `.ipa` file should be stored. Use this to set the path in the `store_artifacts` step to automatically save logs and build artifacts from Fastlane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The environment variable `FL_OUTPUT_DIR` is the artifact directory where FastLane logs and signed `.ipa` files should be stored. Use this to set the path in the `store_artifacts` step to automatically save logs and build artifacts from Fastlane.
```

Author: @rosieyohannan This should be singular as the output will just be one `.ipa` file. I'll remove the comma in another commit

### Code Signing with Fastlane Match

We recommend the use of Fastlane Match for signing your iOS applications as it simplifies and automates the process of code signing both locally and in the CircleCI environment. 

For more information on how to get started with Fastlane Match, please see our [iOS code signing documentation][({{ site.baseurl}}/2.0/ios-codesigning/).

## Using Ruby

> Our macOS images contain multiple versions of Ruby. The default version in use on all images is the system Ruby. The images also include the latest stable versions of Ruby at the time that the image is built. We determine the stable versions of Ruby using the [Ruby-Lang.org downloads page](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/). The version of Ruby that are installed in each image are listed in the [software manifests of each container](#supported-xcode-versions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our macOS images contain multiple versions of Ruby. The default version in use on all images is the system Ruby. The images also include the latest stable versions of Ruby at the time that the image is built. We determine the stable versions of Ruby using the [Ruby-Lang.org downloads page](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/). The versions of Ruby that are installed in each image are listed in the [software manifests of each container](#supported-xcode-versions).
```

If you want to run steps with a version of Ruby that is listed as "available to chruby" in the manifest, then you can use [`chruby`](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby) to do so.

**Note:** Installing Gems with the system Ruby is not advised due to the restrictive permissions enforced on the system directories. As a general rule, we advise using one of the alternative Rubies provided by Chruby for all jobs.

### Images using macOS 10.15 (Xcode 11.2) and later

The [`chruby`](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby) program is installed on the image and can be used to select a version of Ruby. The auto-switching feature is not enabled by default. To select a version of Ruby to use, add the `chruby` function to `~/.bash_profile`:

```yaml
run:
  name: Set Ruby Version
  command: echo 'chruby ruby-2.6' >> ~/.bash_profile
```

Replace `2.6` with the version of Ruby required - you do not need to specify the full Ruby version, `2.6.5` for example, just the major version. This will ensure your config does not break when switching to newer images that might have slightly newer Ruby versions.

### Images using macOS 10.14 (Xcode 11.1) and earlier

> The images using macOS 10.14 and earlier (Xcode 11.1 and earlier) have both `chruby` and [the auto-switcher](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby#auto-switching) enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Images using macOS 10.14 and earlier (Xcode 11.1 and earlier) have both `chruby` and [the auto-switcher](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby#auto-switching) enabled by default.
```

If you do not want to commit a `.ruby-version` file to source control, then you can create the file from a job step:

```yaml
run:
  name: Set Ruby Version
  command:  echo "ruby-2.4" > ~/.ruby-version
```

Replace `2.4` with the version of Ruby required - you do not need to specify the full Ruby version, `2.4.9` for example, just the major version. This will ensure your config does not break when switching to newer images that might have slightly newer Ruby versions.

### Installing additional Ruby versions

To run a job with a version of Ruby that is not pre-installed, you must install the required version of Ruby. We use the [ruby-install](https://github.com/postmodern/ruby-install) tool to install the required version. After the install is complete, you can select it using the appropriate technique above.

### Using Custom Versions of CocoaPods and Other Ruby Gems
{:.no_toc}

To make sure the version of CocoaPods that you use locally is also used
in your CircleCI builds, we suggest creating a Gemfile in your iOS
project and adding the CocoaPods version to it:

> ```

Reviewer: can you mark as yaml?

## Reducing Job Time and Best Practises

### Pre-Starting the Simulator
{:.no_toc}

Pre-start the iOS simulator before building your
application to make sure that the simulator is booted in time.
Doing so generally reduces the number of simulator
timeouts observed in builds.

To pre-start the simulator, add the following to your
`config.yml` file, assuming that you are running your tests on an iPhone 11 Pro
simulator with iOS 13.2:

```
    steps:
      - run:
          name: pre-start simulator
          command: xcrun instruments -w "iPhone 11 Pro (13.3) [" || true
```

**Note:** the `[` character is necessary to uniquely identify the iPhone 7
simulator, as the phone + watch simulator is also present in the build
image:

* `iPhone 11 Pro (13.3) [<uuid>]` for the iPhone simulator.
* `iPhone 11 Pro (13.3) + Apple Watch Series 5 - 40mm (6.1.1) [<uuid>]` for the phone + watch pair.

### Collecting iOS Simulator Crash Reports
{:.no_toc}

> Often if your `scan` step fails, for example due to a test runner timeout, it is likely that your app has crashed during the test run. If your app has crashed in the Simulator during a test run, then collecting crash report is useful for diagnosing the exact cause of the crash. Crash reports can be uploaded as artifacts, as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Often if your `scan` step fails, for example due to a test runner timeout, it is likely that your app has crashed during the test run. In such cases, collecting crash report is useful for diagnosing the exact cause of the crash. Crash reports can be uploaded as artifacts, as follows:
```
Just a suggestion to remove a bit of repetition.
